---
layout: default
artist_name: "Facundo Argañaraz"
show_title: "SUM MANTRA"
start_date: "March 29, 2025"
time: ""
address: "2110 Dennis Lane, Santa Rosa, CA, 95403"
map_link: "https://maps.app.goo.gl/wuk8WU68ent4sWDt9"
event_type: "Exhibition"
hours: "Opening March 29, 3-6pm"
image_folder: "pics/Facundo"
title: "SUM MANTRA"
main_img: "IMG_4859.jpg"
---

"Chanting "So Hum" is believed to harness positive universal energy, promoting overall well-being. It serves as a reminder of our intrinsic connection to the universe, fostering a sense of expanded awareness and inner peace.

Incorporating the "So Hum" mantra into meditation involves synchronizing the chant with your breath—mentally saying "So" on the inhale and "Hum" on the exhale. This practice can help calm the mind, enhance focus, and deepen your meditation experience. Sum Mantra is none of that. 


**Facundo Argañaraz** is a Bay Area artist, curator, and founder of 1599fdT, and Et al. Gallery in San Francisco. As an artist, his current work is aimed at confronting, and living within, the conditions of contemporary aesthetics locked into an ever-expanding present— laying bare the banality and entropic characteristic of Modern constructs, the erosion of content through time, and the problems of originality in a thoroughly commodified world.

He has exhibited nationally and internationally including exhibitions at Berggruen Gallery, San Francisco; Ever Gold Projects, San Francisco; ASU Art Museum, Arizona; Greene Exhibitions, Los Angeles; The Contemporary Austin, Austin; Sonoma Valley Museum of Arts, Sonoma; Queen’s Nails Projects, San Francisco; The LAB, San Francisco; and MCCLA, San Francisco
